# Parser-for-Lexis-Nexus-State-Supreme-Court-Cases

The script takes .txt files downloaded from LexisNexis and outputs a .csv file in Excel. Each row in the spreadsheet corresponds to one case/.txt file. The case citations, state court, decision date, state abbreviation, a dummy variable for if the court hears cases in panels, parties, docket numbers, attorneys, judges (participating judges are included in the judge_ln columns while non-participating judges are not parsed out individually), judge votes, presence of concurring/dissenting opinions, number of concurring/dissenting judges, and which judges concurred/dissented with the majority opinion are all output for each case in the spreadsheet. If a judge writes a dissenting opinion (even if it only dissents in part) or joins a dissenting opinion, the judge is assigned a vote value of “0.” As a general note, due to inconsistencies with Lexis in presenting judge names, “Jr.” and “Sr.” are stripped so that names can match correctly.

I first changed the python script so that the program accurately outputs docket numbers to the excel spreadsheet. Much of the program hinges on text being stored in objects within the script after reaching the first line that begins with “Copy Citation” (see line 585, the if statement nested within two for loops). Since often Lexis lists docket numbers with only digits (i.e. 1992 Ala. LEXIS 59 has “1910070” as the docket “value” while 1990 Ala. LEXIS 441 has a docket “value” of “Nos. 89-1115, 88-1510, 88-1603”), this created some issues since citations begin with a similar format and are also listed prior to the “Copy Citation” line. Additionally, I familiarized myself with entire script to understand exactly what each section is accomplishing (i.e. declare functions to be called later, open a file to write (output) to, create a loop to read in line by line of each .txt) and made appropriate changes to the code as I saw fit to ensure the code would run as intended.

I wrote additional code to output how each judge voted in each case. To do so, I used the justice last names I previously parsed and output to the spreadsheet as a unique identifier to match to the judges that dissented from the dissent line. When a justice decides a case in favor of the majority opinion, the vote column is populated with a “1.” When a justice decides a case in opposition to the majority opinion, the cell is populated with a “0.” A couple assumptions come into play. I treated the first justice in the judge line (Judge1_Last_Name in the spreadsheet) as the opinion writer. Therefore, judge one must always vote in favor of the majority since this justice is writing the majority opinion (and will be coded as “1”). I spot checked 100 cases at random to test if this assumption is viable. The only exception I found was for Alaska cases, so this will have to be checked more comprehensively and additional code will have to be written for states that do not list the majority opinion writer first in the judge line. Even in the cases that violated this assumption, there were not instances of that justice writing a dissent but this may be due to the small sample size of cases I checked (and even smaller sample size of cases where the first listed judge was not the majority opinion writer). After checking cases more comprehensively, I created additional code to pull the majority opinion writer to be judge 1 and assigned a vote value of “0” to correct this assumption. 
